Single Cell RNAseq


10X barcoded Gel beads
Ideal: nothing or single cell/enzyme attached to a bead

Made up of read1, 10xbarcode, UMI (Unique Molecular Identifier), poly(dT)

Single cell GEMs with RT reagents in emulsion
RT primed by poly-dT on bead with UMI
cDNA gems with cell barcodes and UMIs

Primary Analysis

Align the read seq to genome to ID gene that molec corresponds to
> 10x pipeline/Cell Ranger uses STAR aligner
Tabulated y cell barcode and by UMI
>collapsing duplicate UMIs accounts for PCR, gives molec level counts
>Take seq errors into account
Result is a Count Table


Secondary Analysis

Quality control and filtering
normalization
Dimension reduction
Clustering and annot.
Trajectory inference
Diff. Exp.
Velocity analysis


t-SNE (t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding)
>Constructs prob distr. in original dataspace where point A is likely to pick nearby points as 
>Place points in lower dimensional space such that the chsance of A choosing B as its neighbor is preserved
>turning parameter, related to the number of neighbors condsidered in approximating the local distribution
>>> doesnt preserve global structure, modifies localities of clusters to make them uniform in terms of relations to one another




UMAP: Uniform manifold Approximation and Projection

Assuming
>Data is uniformly distributed on Riemannian manifold
>Riemannian metric is locally constant
>manifold is locally connected

UMAP approximates the underlying manifold and finds a lower dimensional representation that preserves distances within the manifold





Part 4 Cell Types

T-test

1. Igfbpl1- Granule neuroblasts, dentate gyrus -Telencephalon
2. Dbi Mus musculus diazepam binding inhibitor (Dbi)
3. Stmn2 Excitatory neurons, cerebral cortex
4. Nrxn3 Excitatory neurons, cerebral cortex
5. mt-Atp6 Cholinergic enteric neurons
6. Islr2 Mus musculus immunoglobulin superfamily containing leucine-rich repeat 2 (Islr2)
7. Nrxn3 Excitatory neurons, cerebral cortex
8. Hbb-bbs Mus musculus hemoglobin, beta adult s chain (Hbb-bs)
9. Sparc Cholinergic enteric neurons
10. Reln Mus musculus reelin (Reln)
11. Rgs5 Mus musculus regulator of G-protein signaling 5 (Rgs5)



logreg


1. Malat1 us musculus metastasis associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (non-coding RNA) (Malat1), long non-coding RNA Excitatory neurons, cerebral cortex
2. Ccna2 Mus musculus cyclin A2 (Ccna2) Neuronal intermidate progenitor cells
3. mt-Atp6 Cholinergic enteric neurons
4.lhx6 Mus musculus LIM homeobox protein 6 (Lhx6)
5. mt-Cytb Afferent nuclei of cranial nerves VI-XII
6. Zbtb20 Mus musculus zinc finger and BTB domain containing 20 (Zbtb20)
7. Npas1 Mus musculus neuronal PAS domain protein 1 (Npas1)
8.Ftl1 Mus musculus ferritin light polypeptide 1 (Ftl1) 
9. Trem2 Mus musculus triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (Trem2)
10. Reln Mus musculus reelin (Reln)
11.Col3a1 Mus musculus collagen, type III, alpha 1 (Col3a1)

















































